:toc:

Changes in AnkiMobile 2
________________________

= Please Read Before Upgrading =

AnkiMobile 2 is a big update, and depending on the features you used
previously and how comfortable you are with computers, it may take a little
while to set up and get used to.

[red]*Please do not upgrade before a test or when you do not have access to a
computer*. The old synchronization service will continue to work for at least
a month, so if you are busy, you can continue to use the old version for now.

As Apple do not provide the ability to download previous versions from the app
store, you may also want to <<backup,create a backup of the old version>> before
upgrading.

= What's New =

AnkiMobile 2.0 is based on Anki 2.0, a new version for computers that has been
in development for over a year and a half. It's faster, has much-improved
synchronization, and introduces some useful new features.

It's highly recommended that you check out the
http://ankisrs.net/docs/changes.html[desktop changes page]. The top section
lists the most important changes, and many of the changes also apply to
AnkiMobile.

As for mobile-specific changes compared to the previous release:

 * AnkiMobile has been rewritten from scratch to avoid all the problems that
   were caused by the old toolkit. Combined with the improvements in Anki 2,
   almost every action is noticeably faster, and the app is more stable.
 * Syncing of sounds and images has been greatly simplified due to Anki 2.0's
   integrated media syncing: no more messing around with Dropbox or being
   unable to sync media added on your device back to the desktop.
 * Shared decks can now be added directly from your mobile device, without
   requiring access to a computer.
 * You can now add privately shared decks as well, either from a private
   website, a mail attachment, or any other app that supports the "Open in..."
   protocol.
 * AnkiMobile now provides the same graphs and statistics that Anki 2 does.
 * You can now customize the colours of the app, with more customizations
   likely to come in the future.
 * Support for the iPhone 5.
 * iOS4.2 support has been dropped, as Apple don't make it possible to support
   the iPhone 5's bigger screen and iOS4.2 at the same time.
 * Swiping has been considerably improved. Instead of requiring a long press
   before the swipe is recognized, swipes start from the left or right side of
   the screen. You no longer have to choose between text selection and swipes:
   both can be used at once.
 * Searching/browsing no longer limits you to 100 matches: it can display your
   entire deck at once, even if it's thousands of cards big.
 * Searching is much, much faster.
 * Searching supports the same searches as Anki 2, including queries such as
   "cards with tag 'Important'", "cards with interval over 3 years", "cards
   failed today", and so on. Please see the updated manual for more
   information.
 * iTunes import/export is a lot easier now. To move cards to your mobile
   device for example, you just file>export on the desktop, copy the resulting
   single file to iTunes, and import from AnkiMobile. Media is automatically
   packaged into the single file when you export, and filenames with foreign
   character are handled without issue. Exporting is even easier: export from
   AnkiMobile, drag the file from iTunes, and double click on it to open up
   the desktop client and replace your collection with the updated version.
   More information is available in the manual.
 * And more!

In the interests of not delaying the 2.0 release, the old Lookup action has
only been partially ported. While it's still possible to open a dictionary app
from a link on your card, it's not currently possible to open a dictionary
based on the currently selected text. There are also some usability issues
with the scratchpad at the moment, where short taps will be treated as a tap
action. This should be fixed in the next release.

Screenshots from the new version:

|=====
|image:am2shots/phone5-1.png[height=568,width=320]|image:am2shots/phone5-2.png[height=568,width=320]
|image:am2shots/phone5-3.png[height=548,width=320]|image:am2shots/phone5-4.png[height=548,width=320]
|image:am2shots/phone5-5.png[height=548,width=320]|
|=====

[[backup]]
= Backing Up AnkiMobile 1 =

To create a backup of the old version of AnkiMobile so that it's possible to
revert to it if you desire, please follow the following steps:

 . Connect your device via the USB cable.
 . Open iTunes if it's not already open.
 . Wait until your device finishes syncing, or sync manually if you have
   disabled automatic syncing.
 . In the top left "Library" section, click on "Apps".
 . Locate Anki in your list of apps, and right click on it. (Ctrl+click on a
   Mac)
 . Choose "Show in Finder" or similar, to open your file browser.
 . You should see a file like "AnkiMobile 1.8.ipa". Copy this file somewhere
   else in order to back it up.

If you accidentally upgraded before syncing, you may be able to recover the
old version from your trash or recycling bin, as iTunes automatically places
it there when you sync a new version.

To revert to the old version, drag the .ipa file onto iTunes. After confirming
that you want to replace the app with a previous version, sync your device
again to load the old version back onto it.

= The Upgrade Process =

The fastest and most reliable way to upgrade is to ensure your decks are
synced or copied to your computer prior to upgrading, and then to perform the
upgrade on the computer. This is documented in more detail in the
link:am-upgrade.html[upgrade documentation].

AnkiMobile also provides an online upgrade for use in emergencies. This
upgrade will bundle up your decks, send them to an internet server, and then
download the new versions. Because this can fail if you have an unreliable
internet connection or your decks have problems, it's recommended that you
upgrade via the desktop instead.

= Changes in 2.0.1 =

2.0.1 was sent to Apple on Nov 7 2012, and is awaiting their approval.

 * Added "Custom Study" feature from the latest desktop version, which makes
   it easier to extend the daily new card or review limits, and create
   filtered decks. Due to time constraints the "limit by tag" option has not
   been implemented yet; it is expected to come in the next release.
 * Filtered decks can still be created manually; the screen is now accessed
   via Tools>More (or can be bound to a tap, swipe, etc).
 * Added Today section to statistics, like on latest desktop.
 * Fixed various issues with audio handling:
 ** Audio now stops when transitioning to different screen.
 ** AM now honours the "autoplay audio" setting of the desktop.
 ** AM now honours the "replay question when answer shown" setting of the desktop.
 ** Fixed bug where multiple audio fields didn't play correctly when card shown.
 ** Fixed bug where multiple audio clips could play at the same time.
 ** Fixed bug where question audio was replayed when answer was shown.
 ** Don't hide replay button if audio in question but not answer.
 * Import/export improvements:
 ** You no longer need to choose between adding to or replacing the collection
    when importing via iTunes or adding a shared deck.
 ** Shared deck importing is much faster, and no longer can cause AnkiMobile
    to run out of memory.
 ** Shared deck importing now copes more gracefully with cards that were
    originally based on the same note type, and duplicate media names.
 ** Fixed an issue where an iTunes export wasn't included media even if
    "include media" was selected.
 * Fixed an issue where media added on the device via the camera/photo
   library/recording facility was not being uploaded to AnkiWeb during a sync,
   which caused a "media sanity check failed" message. If you continue to get
   such messages, please export your collection with media via iTunes (as
   described in the manual), and import it into the desktop program. After
   doing that and syncing, the problem should go away.
 * Fix an issue where the card count increased by one when returning from the
   tools screen.
 * Fix black areas appearing on the deck list on iOS4.3.
 * Fix searches & filtered decks limited to due date
 * AnkiMobile now supports .mobile in your templates
   (http://ankisrs.net/docs/manual.html#platformcss).
 * Automatically resize quickbar buttons when the device is rotated.
 * Reviews/day statistics is more precise.
 * Fixed issues with "reschedule" option on filtered decks being ignored.
 * Fixed issue where failing a review card would give it the number of
   learning steps instead of relearning steps.
 * Fix AnkiMobile reverting to question taps when the device was rotated while
   the answer was shown.
 * Fix issues with tapping to hide/show the navigation bar.
 * Fix issues where the status bar or navigation bar were not reset properly
   when returning from another screen like the tools screen.
 * Fix crashes caused by invalid deck names.
 * Fix an issue where the buttons displayed intervals like "2d 2d 3d" instead
   of "2d 3d 4d".
 * More robust handling of dropped connections during sync.
 * Fix an out of memory condition that could occur when looking for added
   media.
 * Don't crash if the user tries to add an empty deck name.
 * Fix cards being shown twice when returning from edit mode.
 * Fix reviews being reset to a 1 day interval even if the user had provided a
   non-zero lapse %.
 * Made the difference between the normal answer buttons and bigger answer
   buttons more pronounced.
 * When adding/editing a card, newlines are now honoured properly.
 * Fix issues with cloze hints.
 * Fix type in the answer when used in conjunction with a cloze.
 * Fix issues with collection-wide settings not being properly synced from the
   desktop.
 * When previewing a card, make sure we show the edited card and not the first
   card of that note type.
 * Fix inverted find ordering.
 * Fix inverted order of filtered decks when coming from/going to desktop.
 * Strip HTML from fields before comparing with the typed in answer.
 * Fix issue where count on deck list and study screen was inconsistent.
 * Fix some minor graph issues.
 * Fix an issue displaying LaTeX that had multiple lines or non-latin
   characters.
 * Don't allow cards to be added to a filtered deck.
 * Fixed a crash when deleting a card via the edit screen.
 * Show a warning rather than crash when a collection is corrupt.
 * Fix tags not showing up when editing.
 * Fix for a blank toolbar appearing after syncing.
 * Properly sync media when full sync option is triggered in the preferences.
 * Fixed a crash when using the photo chooser on an iPad.
 * Support <% %> in LaTeX templates.
 * Be stricter about invalid CSS, to bring behaviour in line with the desktop.
 * Don't crash when trying to export to iTunes when the collection is already
   in iTunes.
 * You can now pinch to zoom on the statistics screen.
 * Don't unmark when actions like "mark&suspend" triggered.
 * Fix difficult to read table headers when certain theme backgrounds
   selected.
