:toc:

_ Anki for iPhone/iPod Touch/iPad _

//  pass:[<img src="mobile4.png" style="float:right;margin-top:1em;margin-right:2em;"] 
pass:[<hr>]

AnkiMobile is a native client for Apple devices that allows you to use your
desktop decks on the go. It supports offline media and editing features, and
is being actively developed.

AnkiMobile is available on the http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/ankisrs/id373493387?mt=8[App Store].

= The Price =

For the last six years, I have invested thousands of hours on
making a robust, powerful cross platform desktop application freely available.
What started as a hobby has grown into a full time job. Some kind people have
donated to the project, but sadly donations are not enough to live on. So I
created this app to raise money for the Anki project, while also making
something people wanted.

Taken alone, AnkiMobile is expensive for an app. However, AnkiMobile is not a
standalone app, but part of an ecosystem, and the $17.50 Apple gives me on
each sale (after they take their 30% cut of the $25) goes towards the
development of that whole ecosystem. For the price, you get not only the app,
but a powerful desktop application, a free online synchronization service, and
mobile clients for various platforms. The desktop application is open source,
which is essential for ensuring you won't get locked out in the future. If I'm
ever run over by a bus, somebody else could take over development, and the
content of your cards and your learning history is in an open format which
makes it easy to move into a different learning system if you choose.

That said, if you don't have much experience with Anki, or study infrequently,
you may find the learning curve to be steep initially. For serious studiers
the initial setup is definitely worth it - when you're looking at studying
material for months or years, Anki's proven algorithms, cross platform
support, and open file format are essential for ensuring the integrity of your
studies regardless of which device or program you choose to use in the future.
But if you're just looking to review a few questions before a test, and don't
care much about the long term, you may be better off with a cheaper
alternative.

= Getting Started =

Please have a look at the http://ankisrs.net/docs/am-manual.html[online
manual].

= Getting Help =

There's a dedicated http://ankisrs.net/docs/help.html[support site] for
questions, suggestions and bug reports. I monitor the site on a daily basis,
and also employ someone to help answer questions.

= Changes =

Please have a look at the dedicated
http://ankisrs.net/docs/am-changes.html[changes] page.

