Anki 1.2 User Manual
_____________________
Damien Elmes <anki@ichi2.net>

Anki 2.0
=========

This manual is for Anki 1.2. If you have upgraded to
http://ankisrs.net/anki2.html[Anki 2], please see the
http://ankisrs.net/docs/manual.html[new manual] instead.

Introduction
============

:faq: http://ichi2.net/anki/wiki/OldFrequentlyAskedQuestions[Frequently Asked Questions]
:website: http://ichi2.net/anki/[Anki website]

Anki is a program which makes remembering things easy. Because it is a lot
more efficient than traditional study methods, you can either greatly decrease
your time spent studying, or greatly increase the amount you learn.

Anyone who needs to remember things in their daily life can benefit from Anki.
Since it is content-agnostic and supports images, audio, videos and scientific
markup (via LaTeX), the possibilities are endless. For example:

 - learning a language
 - studying for medical and law exams
 - memorizing people's names and faces
 - brushing up on geography
 - mastering long poems
 - even practicing guitar chords!

There are two simple concepts behind Anki: 'active recall testing' and 'spaced
repetition'. They are not known to most learners, despite having been written
about in the scientific literature for many years. Understanding how they work
will make you a more effective learner.

[[active-recall]]
Active Recall Testing
---------------------

'Active recall testing' means being asked a question and trying to remember
the answer. This is in contrast to 'passive study', where we read, watch or
listen to something without pausing to consider if we known the answer.
Research has shown that active recall testing is far more effective at
building strong memories than passive study. There are two reasons for this:

 - The act of recalling something 'strengthens' the memory, increasing the
   chances we'll be able to remember it again
 - When we're unable to answer a question, it tells us we need to return to
   the material to review or relearn it

You have probably encountered active recall testing in your school years
without even realizing it. When good teachers give you a series of questions
to answer after reading an article, or make you take weekly progress-check
tests, they are not doing it simply to see if you understood the material or
not. By testing you, they are increasing the chances you will be able to
remember the material in the future.

A good way to integrate active recall testing into your own studies is to use
'flashcards'. With traditional paper flashcards, you write a question on one
side of a card, and the answer on the other side. By not turning the card over
until you've thought about the answer, you can learn things more
effectively than passive observation allows.

Use It or Lose It
------------------

Our brains are efficient machines, and they rapidly discard information that
doesn't seem useful. Chances are you don't remember what you had for dinner on
Monday two weeks ago, because this information is not usually useful. If you
went to a fantastic restaurant that day and spent the last two weeks telling
people about how great it was, however, you're likely to still remember in
vivid detail.

The brain's "use it or lose it" policy applies to everything we learn. If you
spend an afternoon memorizing some science terms, and then don't think about
that material for two weeks, you'll probably have forgotten most of it. In
fact, studies show we forget about 75% of material learnt within a 48 hour
period. This can seem pretty depressing when you need to learn a lot of
information.

The solution is simple, however: 'review'. By reviewing newly-learnt
information, we can greatly reduce forgetting.

The only problem is that traditionally review was not very practical. If you
are using paper flashcards, it's easy to flick through all of them if you only
have 30 of them to review, but as the number grows to 300 or 3000, it quickly
becomes unwieldy.

[[spaced-repetition]]
Spaced Repetition
-----------------

The 'spacing effect' was reported by a German psychologist in 1885. He
observed that we tend to remember things more effectively if we spread reviews
out over time, instead of studying multiple times in one session. Since the
1930s there have been a number of proposals for utilizing the spacing effect
to improve learning, in what has come to be called 'spaced repetition'.

One example is in 1972, when a German scientist called Sebastian Leitner
popularized a method of spaced repetition with paper flashcards. By separating
the paper cards up into a series of boxes, and moving the cards to a different
box on each successful or unsuccessful review, it was possible to see at a
glance a rough estimate of how well a card was known and when it should be
reviewed again. This was a great improvement over a single box of cards, and
it has been widely adopted by computerized flashcard software. It is a rather
rough approach however, as it can't give you an exact date on which you should
review something again, and it doesn't cope very well with material of varying
difficulty.

The biggest developments in the last 30 years have come from the authors of
SuperMemo, a commercial flashcard program that implements spaced repetition.
SuperMemo pioneered the concept of a system that keeps track of the ideal time
to review material and optimizes itself based on the performance of
the user.

In SuperMemo's spaced repetition system, every time you answer a question, you
tell the program how well you were able to remember it - whether you forgot
completely, made a small mistake, remembered with trouble, remembered easily,
etc. The program uses this feedback to decide the optimal time to show you the
question again. Since a memory gets stronger each time you successfully recall
it, the time between reviews gets bigger and bigger - so you may see a
question for the first time, then 3 days later, 15 days later, 45 days later,
and so on.

This was a revolution in learning, as it meant material could be learnt and
retained with the absolute minimum amount of effort necessary. SuperMemo's
slogan sums it up: with spaced repetition, you can 'forget about forgetting'.

Why Anki?
---------

While there is no denying the huge impact SuperMemo has had on the field, it
is not without its problems. The program is often criticized for being buggy
and difficult to navigate. It only runs on Windows computers. It's proprietary
software, meaning end-users can't extend it or access the raw data. And while
very old versions are made available for free, they are quite limited for
modern use.

Anki addresses these issues. There are free clients for Anki available on many
platforms, so struggling students and teachers with budgetary constraints are
not left out. It's open source, with an already flourishing library of plugins
contributed by end-users. It's multi-platform, running on Windows, Mac OSX,
Linux/FreeBSD, and some mobile devices. And it's considerably easier to use
than SuperMemo.

Internally, Anki's spaced repetition system is based on an older version of
the SuperMemo algorithm called SM2. Subsequent versions have managed to
squeeze out a little more learning efficiency, but they come at the cost of
greatly increased complexity, and they are more susceptible to scheduling
errors in real-world use. For a more in-depth discussion of this and the
differences in scheduling algorithms, see the bottom of {faq}.

The Basics
==========

Before proceeding, you should download Anki from the {website}.

It's also *highly recommended* that you check out the introductory videos on
the website, as they will get you up and running quickly. There is a mirror of
the videos on the Anki website for those who can't access Youtube.

Anki is basically an intelligent electronic flashcard program. You create or
download sets of questions and answers, and Anki presents the questions to you
at the optimium time to ensure you don't forget.

Cards
-----

A question and answer pair is called a 'card'. This is based on a paper
flashcard with a question on one side an the answer on the back. In Anki a
card doesn't actually look like a physical card, and when you show the answer
the question remains visible by default. For example, if you're studying basic
chemistry, you might see a question like:

-----
Q: Chemical symbol for oxygen?
-----

After thinking about it, and deciding the answer is O, you click the show
answer button, and Anki shows you:

-----
Q: Chemical symbol for oxygen?
A: O
-----

After checking you are correct, you can tell Anki how well you remembered, and
Anki will choose a next time to show you again.

Decks
-----

A 'deck' is a file on your computer which contains cards. You can use
different decks for different topics, or keep all your information in one
deck.

Facts & Fields
--------------

Using paper flashcards or a traditional flashcard program, we might make the
following cards:

-----
Q: Chemical symbol for oxygen?
A: O
-----

and

-----
Q: Chemical number for oxygen?
A: 8
-----

and

-----
Q: Chemical name for O?
A: oxygen
-----

There are a number of downsides to this traditional approach. A lot of typing
is involved. It's also easy to accidentally make mistakes, and if you later
realize you spelt oxygen wrong, you have to edit each card in turn to correct
it. You may also end up seeing one question right after the other, which isn't
so useful.

To solve this, Anki allows you to enter 'facts'. Facts are a collection of
related information which is then used to create cards. Facts are made of a
number of 'fields' - in this case Name, Symbol and Number. To make the above
questions, you might enter the following information into Anki:

-----
Name: oxygen
Symbol: O
Number: 8
-----

You can then tell Anki to generate one or more cards based on this
information.

Templates
---------

In Anki, instead of entering information directly on cards, you tell Anki what
type of information you would like to appear on the front and back of the
card, and Anki automatically fills it in for you. This blueprint for what should
appear on the front and back is called a 'template', or 'card template'.

For example, imagine we have the fact mentioned above, and we want a card that
shows:

-----
Q: Chemical symbol for oxygen?
A: O
-----

To do this, we can set the template question and answer to:

-----
Q: Chemical symbol for {{Name}}?
A: {{Symbol}}
-----

By surrounding a field name in curly brackets, we tell Anki to replace that
section with the actual information in the field. The information not
surrounded by curly brackets remains the same on each card.

Now let's create two more templates:

-----
Q: Chemical number for {{Name}}?
A: {{Number}}
-----

and

-----
Q: Chemical name for {{Symbol}}?
A: {{Name}}
-----

Once a template has been created, every time you add a new fact, a card will be
created based on that template. Templates make it easy to keep the formatting
of your cards consistent, and can greatly reduce the amount of effort involved
in adding information. They also mean Anki can ensure related cards
don't appear too close to each other, and mean you can fix a typing mistake
once and have all the related cards updated at once.

To add and edit templates, click the card layout button while adding items.

Models
------

Anki allows you to store different types of information within a single deck.
To do this, it separates each type of information into a separate 'model'. A
model is a list of templates, and a list of fields to store in a fact. In the
previous examples we might have a model called "Chemical Elements". It says we
want three fields: Name, Symbol and Number, and three templates so that for
each fact we enter, three cards will be created.

If we also wanted to study capital cities in the same deck, we might create a
new model with the fields Country and Capital, and create one or more
templates to quiz ourselves on.

Models can be added and edited via the add items screen, the importing screen,
or via Settings>Deck Properties.

Downloading Material
====================

The easiest way to get started with Anki is to download a deck of cards
someone has shared.

 1. Open Anki.
 2. Choose File->Download->Shared Deck, or click the Download button.
 3. Type in a string to search for, or scroll through the list.
 4. Select a deck you're interested in, and click OK. The deck will be
 downloaded and will open up.

.Self-made versus pre-made
**********************************************************************

Creating your own deck is the most effective way to learn a complex subject.
Subjects like languages and the sciences can't be understood simply by
memorizing facts - they require explanation and context to learn effectively.
Furthermore, inputting the information yourself forces you to decide what the
key points are, and leads to a better understanding.

If you are a language learner you may be tempted to download a long list of
words and their translations, but this won't teach you a language any more
than memorizing scientific equations will teach you astrophysics. To learn
properly, you need textbooks, teachers, or exposure to real-world sentences.

 Do not learn if you do not understand.
 -- SuperMemo

Most shared decks are created by people who are learning material outside of
Anki - from textbooks, classes, TV, etc. They select the interesting points
from what they learn and put them into Anki. They make no effort to add
background information or explanations to the cards, because they already
understand the material. But when someone else downloads their deck and tries
to use it, they'll find it very difficult as the background information and
explanations are missing.

That is not to say shared decks are useless - simply that for complex
subjects, they should be used as a 'supplement' to external material, not as a
'replacement'. If you're studying textbook ABC and someone has shared a deck
of ideas from ABC, that's a great way to save some time. And for simple
subjects that are basically a list of facts, such as capital city names or pub
quiz trivia, you probably don't need external material. But if you attempt to
study complex subjects without external material, you will probably meet with
disappointing results.
**********************************************************************

Creating Material
=================

Please see the link:AddItems.html[add items] documentation.


Reviewing
=========

When you have found a deck you like or entered some cards in, it's time to
start reviewing. If the 'Add Items' screen is still open, close it by clicking
on close or pressing Esc. You should see a screen entitled 'Study Options'.
Documentation for this screen is available on link:StudyOptions.html[a
different page].

When you're ready, click 'Start Reviewing'. You'll then see a screen like
this:

image:images/review1.png[]

Here you need to look at the question and think about the answer. It can help
to say the answer out loud, but that is not necessary. It's ok if it takes you
a little while to recall the answer, but as a general rule if you can't answer
within 10 seconds, you should just show the answer.

When you're ready, click 'Show Answer' or press the spacebar or enter key.
You'll see something like the following:

image:images/review2.png[]

Now you need to decide how well you remembered.

== Answer Buttons ==

Anki gives you four options. The labels on the buttons will change depending
on whether you got the card right last time, but the behaviour is the same.

You can use 1 to 4 on the keyboard to choose a button. If you hit space, the
default option (highlighted in green) will be used.

1: Again:: The card will be shown again shortly - within 10 minutes with the
default settings. You can use this button if you've forgotten the answer, and
you can also use it if you remembered, but felt it was too difficult and want
to practice again. This button also marks a card as progressively more
difficult, but only when the previous appearance was successfully answered.
For this reason you can press 'again' many times in a row while learning
without the difficulty rating becoming exceedingly high.

2: Good / Hard:: Wait 1.2x longer than last time, and tell Anki to mark the
card as progressively more difficult. As a card's difficulty rating rises,
buttons 3 and 4 will result in smaller and smaller delay increases.

3: Easy / Good:: Tells Anki to increase a card's delay based on its difficulty
rating. Answering 3 on a new card will give a delay 2.5x the previous delay.
Unlike the other buttons, button 3 does not adjust the difficulty level, so by
using button 3 you are telling Anki that the current difficulty is
appropriate. There is lower limit on the difficulty rating, meaning that
pressing button 3 will always result in a delay 1.3x or more than the previous
delay.

4: Very Easy / Easy:: Tells Anki that the card is too easy. Anki will decrease
the difficulty rating of the card, meaning that buttons 3 and 4 will give more
aggressive delays in the future. The next delay is calculated by increasing
the previous delay like button 3, and then adding an extra 30%. Because this
button results in a big interval increase and tells Anki to use a bigger
delay, you should only use it for cards that are extremely easy. In most cases
you probably want to use button 3 instead.

Each time you answer a card with buttons 2, 3 or 4, the time before it is
shown again will grow longer. Imagine a user has added two cards to their deck
- one difficult one, and an easy one. The difficult one is displayed first,
and the user presses 1. The easy card is shown next and the user already knows
the answer, so they choose 3. The easy card will be shown again in 3-5 days.
Next the difficult card is shown again, and this time the user remembers the
answer, so they choose 2, in order to be able to see the card again the next
day.

The next day the difficult card appears again, and the user still finds it a
little difficult, so they choose 2 again. It will then be shown again in about
2-3 days.

After 3 days have passed, the easy card appears again. The user still finds it
pretty easy, so they choose 3 again. The card will next be shown about 10 days
in the future. If they continue to answer it correctly, the times will
continue to grow.

= The Rest =

The rest of the documentation is currently available on separate pages. Many
of these pages can also be reached by pressing the help button on the
appropriate screen in Anki.

 * link:OldFrequentlyAskedQuestions.html[Frequently Asked Questions]
 * link:CardLayout.html[Card Layout]
 * link:Browser.html[Editing Your Deck]
 * link:FileImport.html[Importing Files]
 * link:DeckProperties.html[Deck Properties]
 * link:ModelProperties.html[Model Properties]
 * link:Preferences.html[Preferences]
 * link:CramMode.html[Cramming For Tests]
 * link:SelectiveStudy.html[Selective Study]
 * link:Graphs.html[Graphs]
 * link:MediaSync.html[Synchronizing Media]
 * link:TheTimerAndShortQuestions.html[The Timer]
 * link:Leeches.html[Leeches]
 * link:ProgressBars.html[Coloured Bars in Review]
 * link:CardDisplayOrderAndPriorities.html[Card Priorities]
 * link:JapaneseSupport.html[Japanese Support]
 * link:CardStatistics.html[Card Statistics]
